# CS370Final

Created for SNHU Course CS370: Emerging Technologies in Computer Science Module 7 Project 2

A key aspect of the game navigated by our agent is an open map: any player has full access to the map, including their own location, the location of the treasure, and awareness of whether any given space is a hallway or a wall. This means until the intelligent agent develops enough skill to be able to mitigate minute route differences, a human is going to be able to find the better path every time as the task is essentially tracing a path from one point to another. A human would be able to look at the maze and choose a path without much active decision making. However, some mazes will present different options for a solution. The higher reward would be received for finding the path that covered the shorted distance while still reaching the treasure. The machine agent will start with random choices and gradually improve as it obtains experiences from which to learn. After the agent reaches the point of finding the treasure during every round (that’s possible to win), the computer has the advantage as a computer will have learned from truly random scenarios whereas a human would be biased towards patterns that make sense to them.
	When it comes to neural networks, exploitation refers to actions taken based on relevant knowledge obtained in a past episode while exploration refers to the actions taken when no relevant past experience can be found and a random action is taken. Both are important in development of a machine agent, exploitation for more obvious reasons: learning from past experiences is the main idea. Exploration is also important when it comes to developing new and advanced ways to solve tasks. Ideally, an algorithm would start with a high exploration rate so that many of the possible paths are tested and stored for future use. After the algorithm has run for enough time that all or nearly all scenarios have sufficient data to consistently find the most ideal solution, that exploration rate would be dramatically reduced so that the agent can utilize existing skills more often.
	During each step, a random collection of past steps is summoned and compared to the current scenario and used to pick the most beneficial path forward. In the first several episodes, the choices are based off of minimal data. Over time, the variety of recorded steps increases, and the likelihood of summoning a step with relevant data also increases. The relevant steps multiply as the system learns from past similar steps and creates a new step that’s similar. Over time, the most useful steps accumulate to form large volumes of steps and increasing the likelihood of one of those steps will be summoned during a relevant scenario.
	Perhaps another form of neural network would be more useful for this kind of task, but the random sampling of past events seems like a quite inefficient way to solve this particular problem. Each step in my implementation summons several random past steps from which to base the action to be taken next. As the episodes continue, the volume of potential steps to learn from increases and increases the runtime of the next episode. The difference in time or reward between humans and the machine agent is negligible.
